[Release_v2140] Update ReleaseNotes.md (#3071)
openvinotoolkit/nncf: ReleaseNotes.md

# Release Notes

## New in Release 2.14.0

Post-training Quantization:

- Breaking changes:
  - ...
- General:
  - ...
- Features:
  - ...
- Fixes:
  - ...
- Improvements:

>   - The `ultralytics` version has been updated to 8.3.22.

Reviewer: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/pull/3038

  - ...
- Deprecations/Removals:

>   - The `tensorflow_addons` has been removed from the dependencies.

Reviewer: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/pull/3025

>   - (OpenVINO) Extended support of data-free and data-aware weights compression methods ([nncf.compress_weights()](docs/usage/post_training_compression/weights_compression/Usage.md#user-guide) API) with NF4 per-channel quantization, which makes compressed LLMs more accurate and faster on NPU.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/pull/2898

>   - (OpenVINO) Fixed GPTQ weight compression method for Stable Diffusion models.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/pull/3002

  - Extended ignored patterns with RoPE block for `nncf.ModelType.TRANSFORMER` scheme.
  - (OpenVINO) Extended to the ignored scope for `nncf.ModelType.TRANSFORMER` scheme with GroupNorm metatype.
  - (ONNX) SE-block ignored pattern variant for `torchvision` mobilenet_v3 has been extended.
- Tutorials:
  - [Post-Training Optimization of Llama-3.2-11B-Vision Model](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/tree/latest/notebooks/mllama-3.2/mllama-3.2.ipynb)
  - [Post-Training Optimization of YOLOv11 Model](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/tree/latest/notebooks/yolov11-optimization/yolov11-object-detection.ipynb)
  - [Post-Training Optimization of Whisper in Automatic speech recognition with OpenVINO Generate API](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/latest/notebooks/whisper-asr-genai/whisper-asr-genai.ipynb)
  - [Post-Training Optimization of Pixtral Model](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/latest/notebooks/pixtral/pixtral.ipynb)
  - [Post-Training Optimization of LLM ReAct Agent Model](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/latest/notebooks/llm-agent-react/llm-agent-react.ipynb)

>   - [Post-Training Optimization of CatVTON Model](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/latest/notebooks/catvton/catvton.ipynb)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - [Post-Training Optimization of CatVTON Model](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/latest/notebooks/catvton/catvton.ipynb)
```
- [Post-Training Optimization of CatVTON Model](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/latest/notebooks/catvton/catvton.ipynb)
- [Post-Training Optimization of Stable Diffusion v3 Model in Torch FX Representation](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/latest/notebooks/stable-diffusion-v3/stable-diffusion-v3-torch-fx.ipynb)

# Release Notes

## New in Release 2.14.0

Post-training Quantization:

- Breaking changes:
  - ...
- General:
  - ...
- Features:
  - (OpenVINO) Extended support of data-free and data-aware weights compression methods ([nncf.compress_weights()](docs/usage/post_training_compression/weights_compression/Usage.md#user-guide) API) with NF4 per-channel quantization, which makes compressed LLMs more accurate and faster on NPU.

>   - Introduced `backup_mode` optional parameter in `nncf.compress_weights()` to specify the data type for embeddings, convolutions and last linear layers during 4-bit weights compression. Available options are INT8_ASYM by default, INT8_SYM, and NONE which retains the original floating-point precision of the model weights.

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/pull/2978

  - Introduced `backup_mode` optional parameter in `nncf.compress_weights()` to specify the data type for embeddings, convolutions and last linear layers during 4-bit weights compression. Available options are INT8_ASYM by default, INT8_SYM, and NONE which retains the original floating-point precision of the model weights.
  - Added preview support for the optimization of models in [Torch FX](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/fx.html) format, nncf.quantize() and nncf.compress_weights() methods. After the optimization such models can be directly executed via [torch.compile()](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/openvino-workflow/torch-compile.html). See [int8 quantization example](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/tree/develop/examples/post_training_quantization/torch_fx/resnet18) for more details.
  - ...
- Fixes:
  - (OpenVINO) Fixed GPTQ weight compression method for Stable Diffusion models.
  - (Torch, ONNX) Scaled dot product attention pattern quantization setup is aligned with OpenVINO.
  - ...
- Improvements:
  - The `ultralytics` version has been updated to 8.3.22.

>   - Reduction in peak memory by 30-50% for data-aware weight compression with AWQ, SE, LoRA and mixed precision algorithms.

Reviewer 5: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/pull/3003

>   - Reduction in compression time by 10-20% for weight compression with AWQ algorithm.

Reviewer 5: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/pull/3044

# Release Notes

## New in Release 2.14.0

Post-training Quantization:

- Breaking changes:
  - ...
- General:
  - ...
- Features:
  - (OpenVINO) Extended support of data-free and data-aware weights compression methods ([nncf.compress_weights()](docs/usage/post_training_compression/weights_compression/Usage.md#user-guide) API) with NF4 per-channel quantization, which makes compressed LLMs more accurate and faster on NPU.
  - Introduced `backup_mode` optional parameter in `nncf.compress_weights()` to specify the data type for embeddings, convolutions and last linear layers during 4-bit weights compression. Available options are INT8_ASYM by default, INT8_SYM, and NONE which retains the original floating-point precision of the model weights.

>   - Added preview support for the optimization of models in [Torch FX](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/fx.html) format, nncf.quantize() and nncf.compress_weights() methods. After the optimization such models can be directly executed via [torch.compile()](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/openvino-workflow/torch-compile.html). See [int8 quantization example](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/tree/develop/examples/post_training_quantization/torch_fx/resnet18) for more details.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 (Experimental: Torch FX) Added experemental support for quantizazation and weights compression of [Torch FX](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/fx.html) models. The compressed models can be directly executed via [torch.compile(compressed_model, backend="openvino")](https://docs.openvino.ai/2024/openvino-workflow/torch-compile.html), see [int8 quantization example](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/tree/develop/examples/post_training_quantization/torch_fx/resnet18). The list of supported features:
    - INT8 quantization with SmoothQuant, MinMax, Fast Bias Correction and Bias Correction algorihtms via nncf.quantize().
    - Data free INT8 and INT4 weights compression with nncf.compress_weights().
    - Data free mixed-presision data weights compression with nncf.compress_weights(). "ratio" parameter is specified the percent of the rest layers compressed to 4-bit, e.g. ratio=0.9 means 90% of layers compressed to the corresponding 4-bit data type and the rest to a `backup_mode`.
```
@daniil-lyakhov, @anzr299 I suggest to extend this bullet the following way.

Author: @alexsu52, @daniil-lyakhov, @anzr299, please consider to make a decision about this ASAP.

>   - (OpenVINO) Introduced a new option to cache and reuse statistics for the Weight Compression algorithm, reducing the time required to find optimal compression configurations. The [TinyLlama example](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/tree/develop/examples/llm_compression/openvino/tiny_llama_find_hyperparams) has been updated to showcase this feature.

Reviewer 7: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/pull/3017

>   - Added the `quantizer_propagation_rule` parameter, providing fine-grained control over quantizer propagation. This advanced option is designed to improve accuracy for models where quantizers with different granularity could be merged to per-tensor, potentially affecting model accuracy.

Reviewer 7: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/pull/2994/

  - ...
- Fixes:

>   - Resolved an issue with redundant quantizer insertion before elementwise operations, reducing noise introduced by quantization.

Reviewer 7: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/pull/2903

  - (OpenVINO) Fixed GPTQ weight compression method for Stable Diffusion models.
  - (Torch, ONNX) Scaled dot product attention pattern quantization setup is aligned with OpenVINO.
  - ...
- Improvements:
  - The `ultralytics` version has been updated to 8.3.22.
  - Reduction in peak memory by 30-50% for data-aware weight compression with AWQ, SE, LoRA and mixed precision algorithms.
  - Reduction in compression time by 10-20% for weight compression with AWQ algorithm.

>   - (ONNX) SE-block ignored pattern variant for `torchvision` mobilenet_v3 has been extended.

Reviewer 7: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/nncf/pull/2926

  - ...

> - Tutorials:

Reviewer 6: @anzr299, please, add link to the SD3 tutorial.
